{ Matthew Holehouse 
    April 24 2014 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/clegg-in-call-to-remove-queen-as-church-of-englands-head-30216769.html }
DEPUTY British Prime Minister Nick Clegg has called for the disestablishment of the Church of England, a move that would see Queen Elizabeth removed as the head of the church. Mr Clegg said the two should no longer be "bound up" together and that church and state in Britain should be separated. "In the long run, it would be better for the church and better for people of faith, and better for Anglicans, if the church and the state were to stand on their own two separate feet," Mr Clegg said. The monarch has been the head of the Church of England since Henry VIII's split with Rome in 1534. The queen holds the title of Defender of the Faith and Supreme Governor of the Church of England. Such a move would see Britain resembling France, which has a strictly secular constitution. Nevertheless, Britain is a Christian country, Mr Clegg said, whose history, heritage and architecture are "infused by Christian values". "I'm not a practising man of faith, but I don't find it a problem to say we have an important Christian identity," he said. "That is not to say we are exclusively Christian, everyone is a Christian or indeed that we have one Christian denomination. "We should remember one of the greatest Christian values is tolerance. "We are open to people of other denominations and faiths, of all faiths and none, and that's what makes our country very special." Mr Clegg was responding to a listener on his weekly LBC Radio phone-in programme. Paul from York said: "David Cameron's statement that this is a Christian country is totally asinine and nonsense. Do you not think we should be keeping religion totally out of politics? He won't be getting another vote from me." It follows a week of heated debate over Britain's status as a Christian country. David Cameron said the country should be "unapologetic" about its Christianity, comments condemned as "sectarian" and "divisive" by prominent atheists. In a letter to London's 'Daily Telegraph' yesterday from eight leading philosophers, atheists are urged to show "liberal tolerance" to the fact that Britain is a "Christian country". The group, including Prof Roger Scruton and Prof John Haldane, say the moderate Christianity "enshrined" in the British constitution protects people of other faiths and none. Earlier, Mr Clegg had launched his party's European election campaign, calling on voters to "choose the Liberal Democrats because we are now Britain's only party of 'in'," referring to staying as members of the EU. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 

{  
    February 01 2016 07:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/we-dont-believe-we-have-done-anything-wrong-couple-who-refused-to-decorate-cake-in-same-sex-row-34412850.html }
On the week that their youngest daughter was born, Daniel and Amy McArthur received a letter which ultimately thrust them into the media spotlight, not just in Northern Ireland but across the world. It was notification from the NI Equality Commission that it was beginning legal proceedings against the family business over what became known as the Ashers' same-sex cake row. 
Close
 Gareth Lee / Daniel is general manager of the Ashers bakery which refused to provide a cake bearing a pro-same-sex marriage slogan for a customer and was eventually found guilty of discrimination and fined £500. The company's appeal against the judgment is due to begin this week. 
Close
 Ashers bakery / Sitting in their comfortable detached home in the east Antrim village of Straid, Daniel and Amy still appear genuinely bemused both at how they were drawn into such a high profile legal action and the media frenzy which followed. Daniel says: "It was all a massive shock to us because we are not extrovert people. We are quiet people getting on with our business day to day. We are relying on and trusting in God to help us. If we were relying on ourselves we would just break down." 
Close
 Daniel and Amy McArthur leaving court in Belfast last May after the ruling went against the Ashers bakery / This reference to their Christian faith is the central nub of the controversy. The judge in the case accepted that the McArthur family - the action was taken against the bakery and Daniel's mother and father, Karen and Colin McArthur - had strongly held and genuine Christian beliefs which were opposed to same-sex marriage but that, under the law, that was no excuse for the business refusing to provide the service required by the customer. Daniel says he and Amy both come from deeply Christian homes. "I have been a Christian since I was about five and Amy was also very young when she became a Christian. "The name of the bakery comes from a verse in the Book of Genesis which my father read when he was about 15. It says 'Out of Asher his bread shall be fat and he shall yield royal dainties'. His father and grandfather had been bakers based in Sandy Row in Belfast and my father decided that if ever he ran his own bakery he would call it Ashers after that tribe of Israel." Both Daniel and Amy were originally members of the Free Presbyterian Church but now worship at Trinity Reformed Presbyterian Church in Mossley. They met when they were part of a group of seven who had gone to the Philippines to support a Belfast missionary working there. They were both aged 17 at the time and love blossomed. Now aged 26 and parents to two girls, Robyn (3) and Elia (1), they have been married for six years. Daniel says their faith is not something confined to Sunday worship. "Every day we will sit down with our children and read the Bible to them and have family worship. Our faith is not just about going to church on a Sunday and then forgetting about it for the rest of the week." Amy gives an example of how they try to instil Christian values in the everyday life of the family. "If Robyn is naughty we don't tell her that what she did is bad but that it is against what God wants us to do. That is the same lesson that we were taught when we were growing up. That is why, in this case, we could not in good conscience go against our beliefs. It is how we live our lives and how we respond to things during the day. It is something that is constantly on our minds." The test of that faith began, according to evidence at the court hearing, on May 8 or 9 2014 when a customer, Gareth Lee, entered the family's retail outlet in Royal Avenue, Belfast. The company has a bakery at Doagh Road in Newtownabbey which supplies its six retail outlets, petrol station forecourts and small supermarkets and also runs an online ordering service supplying products to the Great Britain, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland markets. "The Equality Commission's official line is that you should leave your Christianity out of the workplace and should be a Christian at home or in church. To us that is like something out of a science fiction novel with people telling you how to act and think and if someone asks you to do something against your beliefs you have to do it." He adds: "I feel there should be legislation to prevent people being discriminated against and accept there needs to be good law but I also feel that the Equality Commission has its own agenda and wants to see same-sex marriage introduced here. "If you politely disagree you get shouted down and get called bigots and homophobes and it is suggested that you don't want gay people to live their lives." He reveals that the company was targeted by vandals around the time of the court hearing. An attempt was made to break windows in the Royal Avenue shop and one of the doors was badly damaged. Food was also thrown at another shop window by people driving past. He adds: "There were also plenty of adverse comments on social media and one letter was sent to us saying that the person was going to burn down our building and that they hoped we would be in it when they did it. However, these comments were very much in the minority. We have had hundreds of letters of support. "When we started out on this legal road we were worried about how the public was going to perceive us and how customers would perceive us. However the support has been fantastic. So many people have gone out of their way to buy our products and to come to our shops. It felt really surreal when people came up to me on the street, in most cases just simply to shake my hand. Our business has continued to grow as it did over the last five years. God has been really good to us." He is thankful for the support of the Christian Institute during the legal process. "We would have been lost not knowing how to deal with a body like the Equality Commission or how to put our beliefs and views across in a legal format. It is fantastic knowing that if we are worried about something we can ring the Institute and get help." Daniel says his legal team argues that it is their human right to be able to express their beliefs in the workplace and is prepared to take the case to the European courts if judgments continue to go against them in Belfast. "I hope it does not go that far," he adds. By coincidence Daniel's mum, Karen, was working in the shop that day covering for the manager who was on holiday. Gareth ordered a cake and supplied a graphic bearing the words QueerSpace (a lobby group) and Support Gay Marriage which he wanted iced onto it. Daniel says his mother was shocked by the request but did not want to make a scene in the shop. "She took the order home and over that weekend we discussed it as a family. We knew as Christians that we could not take that order with that message. "Mum later got in touch with Gareth Lee, explained the situation and apologised to him. If my granny had come into the shop and placed that order we would have said 'no' to her." After initial contact from the Equality Commission the McArthurs contacted the Christian Institute, a UK-wide organisation. It has funded the family's legal battle since then. "We had never been to court before," says Daniel. "I suppose all this was very daunting for us at first but we were left with little choice given the options presented to us by the Equality Commission. At one stage the organisation said that if we apologised formally for our actions it would go away. But why should we apologise to the commission about that as we felt we did not do anything wrong?" He expects that the appeal, expected to last two days, will be less stressful than the original court hearing with its attendant publicity. "The big factor for us in going to appeal is that it is not just for ourselves but also for other Christians working in business or, like us, owning a business. Hopefully if we can win the appeal it will give them additional rights and say that you can be a Christian and hold Christian beliefs outside the home or the church without feeling threatened," he says. He supports the idea of amendments to the current anti-discrimination legislation along the lines of the conscience clause which was proposed by a DUP MLA but which failed to get through the Stormont Executive. "I think there should be a conscience clause or reasonable accommodation for Christians or other religious beliefs in the legislation because this issue is bound to affect other faiths or political groups. Something needs to be put in place to prevent other people being ensnared in what we have been caught up in". He adds: "That is what some people don't understand. Every day we are compelled to follow Jesus Christ and do what the Bible teaches. We live our lives doing that. It is not done out of duress or hardship, we love it." In the immediate aftermath of the court case the family had considered stopping baking cakes ordered for special occasions. "However we decided that we were not going to change our company policy just because of this case. Why should we? We don't believe we have done anything wrong," says Daniel. It remains to be seen if the Appeal Court will accept that argument.   May 2014: Gareth Lee wants a cake depicting Sesame Street characters Bert and Ernie below the motto 'Support Gay Marriage' for an event to mark International Day Against Homophobia. He attends the Ashers Bakery Belfast city centre shop and places an order.  Ashers Bakery initially accepts the order, but contacts Mr Lee a few days later to say they cannot fulfil it because it goes against their religious beliefs. Backed by the Equality Commission, Mr Lee sues the bakery. March 2015: A 17-hour, three-day courtroom battle ensues. Mr Lee tells the court that he was left to feel like a "lesser person" when the firm refused his order. The McArthurs, who own Ashers, tell the court they could not "stand before God" and produce a cake supporting gay marriage. District Judge Isobel Brownlie reserves judgment. The case of clashing religious and equality rights attracts interest from across the world. The case also ignites a political row, with the DUP attempting to introduce a conscience clause Bill which would give business owners the right to refuse service if it impinges on their sincerely held religious views. May 2015: District Judge Isobel Brownlie delivers her judgment, finding that Ashers discriminated against customer Gareth Lee on grounds of sexual orientation and political beliefs. The firm is ordered to pay £500 in damages to Mr Lee. October 2015: The McArthur family announce their intention to appeal. February 2016: Ashers' challenge to the ruling gets underway. this week. Belfast Telegraph 

{ Shaun Connolly 
    October 21 2019 08:12 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/brexit/showdown-for-boris-johnson-on-crunch-vote-as-opposition-seek-to-hijack-brexit-legislation-38614995.html }
Boris Johnson is set for a showdown with Commons Speaker John Bercow as the UK Prime Minister pushes for a knife-edge Commons vote on his Brexit deal. Mr Bercow, who Tory Brexiteers have accused of being pro-Remain, will rule on whether the UK government can bring a so-called "meaningful vote" on its plans. If the Speaker blocks the move, focus will switch to the UK government bringing its Withdrawal Agreement Bill (WAB) before MPs on Monday, with a vote on its second reading on Tuesday. Ministers insist they "have the numbers" to push the agreement through, but the parliamentary situation appears to be on a tightrope. Yesterday, Taoiseach Leo Varadkar said the Government was "disappointed" that the House of Commons had not yet voted on the deal struck between British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and the EU. He said yesterday that a Brexit extension was preferable to a crash-out Brexit "if it comes to it". The DUP is opposing the deal as it is against the prospect of a de facto customs border down the Irish Sea. Mr Varadkar ruled out further concessions aimed at getting the DUP onside. "This is done now - we have negotiated two deals with the UK government at this stage, both of them supported by 28 governments," he said.  "There isn't going to be any further changes and I think the UK government acknowledges that." Labour has made clear it will try to hijack the legislation by putting down amendments for a second Brexit referendum and a customs union with the EU. Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer indicated Labour could even back the WAB if it was put to voters in a national poll against a Remain option. Shadow solicitor general Nick Thomas-Symonds said that Labour MPs will call for a confirmatory referendum, adding that he thought Parliament may vote in favour of Britain staying in a customs union with the bloc. "A customs union is going to be one of the amendments that comes through and that is something that is going to have a very good chance of getting a majority," Mr Thomas-Symonds told BBC Radio 4's The Westminster Hour. But, in a column for The Daily Telegraph, International Trade Secretary Liz Truss said making a customs union part of any pact "would take us back to square one and render the UK unable to strike our own bilateral trade agreements around the world". Despite being forced by Parliament to request a Brexit delay from Brussels after another embarrassing Commons defeat on Saturday, Mr Johnson and Ministers are talking up their chances of rushing Brexit legislation through. The move came amid reports that the EU was considering offering the UK a "flexible extension" to February, allowing it to leave whenever an agreement is secured. The PM is striking a bullish stance as he faces another rollercoaster week in the Commons, insisting the UK will still quit the EU in 10 days. He abandoned plans for a meaningful vote on a Saturday sitting of the Commons after suffering an embarrassing defeat at the hands of former Tory minister Sir Oliver Letwin. But the PM had not suffered a loss but achieved a "boost to his strategy", according to former Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith. "For every time he is forced to take a defiant stand against the Remainers in Parliament, it only becomes clearer to the British public just who is fighting desperately and against the odds to deliver their wishes, and who is to blame for the fact that Brexit is not yet over," Mr Duncan Smith wrote in The Daily Telegraph. After losing the vote, Mr Johnson had no option but to write to European Council president Donald Tusk, as Parliament demanded, requesting a three-month extension to the end of January. The PM did not sign the letter, and sent a second communication insisting that a delay would be "deeply corrosive" for the UK and the EU. Labour accused Mr Johnson of behaving like a "spoiled brat". The DUP was reported to be considering backing Labour's move to force a new customs union with the EU into WAB legislation. Commons Leader Jacob Rees-Mogg told MPs the Government aimed to hold a meaningful vote on the Brexit deal on Monday. Mr Bercow said he would consider whether to allow the Government's plans, but he could rule that such a vote effectively happened on Saturday and cannot be repeated so soon. However, party chief whip Sir Jeffrey Donaldson told BBC Radio 5 Live he wanted to engage with the Government to see "where things stand". If the PM's deal is amended he will have no choice but to accept a long delay to the UK's departure from the bloc. A Government source said: "Parliament needs a straight up-and-down vote on the deal... or do they want to frustrate and cancel Brexit altogether? "We cannot allow Parliament's letter to lead to Parliament's delay." The source said the WAB would need more late-night and weekend sittings by MPs. PA Media 

